---
layout: post
title: "Lightning Email Converter"
date: 2025-06-25
author: tom
categories: [technology, Salesforce, app]
image: /assets/images/VibeCoding.png
tags: [technology, App, Road2ISV]
---

A few years ago I was working on a project that required rapid protyping of various Salesforce features, the person we were presenting to loved emaii templates amd the software we were looking to replace contained 150+ of the things. So alot of email templates were getting created, this created a problem. My prefered email creation solution is Lightning Email Templates, but Salesforce still prefers to run with classic email templates in many places. For instance in flow it is getting better at supporting email but it still doesnt offer the WYSIWYG functionality that I love about Lightning Email Templates. 

What do I want to do about this? Well this problem has occured in multiple orgs and the cross org solution is... an app store app! Enter Lighting Email Converter, a free Salesforce App store app.

I guess there are two goals here one is creating this app that I think would be useful the other is learning about all things ISV and getting an idea from my head and into something real that people can use, both challenging and both hopefully very useful.

Let me now present the data model and some features that I would like this to have as an MVP.

## MVP
The key aim of this app is to link the super useful, easy to use and WYSIWYG created lighting email templates to other parts of the Salesforce platform where email templates are used but still feel clunky.
- Ability to push lightning templates to classic email templates
- Merge fields mapping over, these are quite inconsistent and differ across the various email template types
  
**Stretch**

I would love for this tool to be able to do these things, but I think it js better that I make something lightweight that i can get out into people's hands first, that being said some quick features Iwould like to add:
- Ability to get Lightning Email templates into flow (with working merge fields)
- Automatic updating between a lightning email template and its associated other email templates

## Starting 
To talk about a possible data model we must first talk about how Salesforce stores email templates in the metadata. They are actually one object with a type field that lets Salesforce know if it is a Lightning or Classic template. This is good for us as we want this data and the two things are stored in the same place, amazing! But if I want a UI then, 
